
The bad news is that v2.4 is the final Q-Blue release; there will be no more
updates.  The good news is that Q-Blue is now freeware, available for anyone
to use, instead of costing $20 to register as all versions up to 2.3 did.
The other bad news, of course, is that it took so long for me to go back and
finish this final release that now there's probably nobody to use it.

Q-Blue 2.4 is not much different from 2.3, but does have a couple of added
features.  If you are using a version of Q-Blue earlier than 2.3, please
review the material below.

If you have been using Q-Blue 2.3, the only major new feature added is
support for attached files.  This is covered in section 10.11 of the manual,
"Q-Blue.doc".  There is one new setup option, described at the end of
section 6.3: when Q-Blue's screen is not overscanned, you can have a
scrollbar at the right edge of the screen that hides itself except when the
mouse is near it.

Q-Blue can be started from a CLI prompt or from the Workbench.  Command line
and tool type options are described in the manual, "Q-Blue.doc".  Commonly,
none are needed.  When started from a CLI, it automatically detaches itself
to run in the background, so you get your command prompt back right away.

Before running the program, you should double-click on the included "Install"
script icon, especially if you do not have suitable IBM fonts in your FONTS:
drawer.  It will describe several included fonts and let you select which
ones to install.  If you are using fonts from a release of Q-Blue older than
v2.3, you should run this script and install the latest set.  This release
includes some fonts that use the Amiga's regular ISO character set, with the
same "look" as the IBM fonts.  For each IBM font there is an ISO font of
matching size and similar name, except for those IBM fonts that match the
built-in topaz 8 and topaz 9 fonts (newcleanibm 8 and wideibm 9).

The most complex part of using the program is setting it up for the first
time, but even that is, in many ways, easier to do than to describe.  The
process is explained in complete detail in the user manual.  Once Q-Blue is
set up, most of its operation is intuitively obvious.  Those who are using an
older version of Q-Blue should note that many of the default commands for the
supported archiving programs have been changed.  You may wish to alter your
configuration to use the new commands, detailed in sections 5.2 and 5.4 of
the user manual.

If you have version 1.0 or older of Q-Blue, it is especially recommended that
you change the Zip compression command from "Zip -jkr @A @D" to the new form
"Zip -k @A *".  (Or if you have a version of Zip older than 2.0, you should
use "Zip -k @A @F".  If your Zip command is "Zip -k @A @F", as may be the
case if you have Q-Blue 1.9 or newer, you should change it to "Zip -k @A *",
again except in the case of a very old version of Zip.  Note also that there
are now two Zip command settings: one for normal use, and one for use with
outdated software compatible with PKZIP 1.x; the Zip 1.x version uses "Zip -
0k @A *" as its compression command, and "50 4B 03 04 0A" as its pattern.
(Decompression is identical for both.)  Commands for the LZX compressor have
also been added: the command for decompression is "LZX -m -X0 x @A", for
compression is "LZX -X0 a @A #?", and the pattern is "4C 5A 58".

If you have been using Q-Blue version 2.0 or 2.1, the most important new
features added in v2.3 were Internet email and newsgroup handling, and
support for new offline configuration features found in Blue Wave 3.x doors.
For these new features, see sections 6.10 (on setting up email for QWK
packets and systems that use Fidonet gating), 10.8 (on writing email and,
with BW 3.x, newsgroup posts), and 11.2 through 11.5 (on BW offline
configuration).  Some new setup options are discussed in sections 4.1, 6.3,
and 6.8; section 6.9 on QWK netmail also reflects some changes, and should
especially be reviewed if you want to set up Fido gated email in QWK packets.

One feature that is new as of v2.3 is that BBS pointer files are now saved
automatically in the context directory.  This is explained in section 8.3 of
the manual.  Also, the "save message" command, when used on a bulletin file,
now makes an accurate binary copy instead of doing things like adding a
header and stripping out ANSI codes.

The manual is formatted for printing on US letter or European A4 size paper.
The margins are set up on the assumption that printing begins up to one half
inch (12 mm) below the top edge of the paper.  Each page of the document
contains 60 lines including headers and footers, so if your printer has
vertical margins or a perforation skip feature, the page length should still
fit.  It is 148 pages long.  It contains ANSI underlining codes, so printing
it through your regular Amiga printer driver will underline various things if
your printer is capable of doing so, as most are.  The underlining will also
show if it is viewed with most text viewers such as More.

Below is a copy of Q-Blue's new distribution license.  It is substantially
different from that of past versions, since I am no longer taking money for
it, even if offered.

    The computer program "Q-Blue, release 2.4" is copyright (c) 1992-
    1999 by Paul Kienitz, with all rights reserved except as stated
    here.  The archive containing the executable program file
    "Q-Blue", the manual "Q-Blue.doc", and the various fonts and other
    incidental files included in this distribution, may be freely
    copied, distributed, and used so long as none of the contents of
    the distribution package are modified or removed.  Additional
    material may be added, but it should be labeled in some manner to
    indicate that it is not part of the original Q-Blue distribution.

    Previous versions of Q-Blue existed in two forms, an "evaluation"
    version and a "registered" version.  The former was licensed to be
    used only for a limited time by any one person; the latter was
    licensed only to be used by a single person who was not permitted
    to distribute copies.  With the release of Q-Blue 2.4 under this
    license, permission is granted for copies of all such past
    versions to be freely distributed on the same terms as this
    version, so long as they are not represented as being this version
    or a newer version.  Such distribution should be accompanied by
    some notification stating that Q-Blue is now "freeware" and no
    money should be sent to the author.  The restriction on modifying
    contents of the distribution is lifted in two specific ways: it is
    permitted to remove the file "How-to-order" which specified how to
    buy a registered copy, and it is permitted to modify the section
    of the manual labeled "How to contact the author" to include
    up-to-date information from the equivalent section of the Q-Blue
    2.4 manual.

    Q-Blue, like most software, is provided "as is", with no warranty
    of any kind.  The author cannot assume liability for any damage
    caused by the software.

Here is a list of all of the files included in this public beta distribution
of Q-Blue, archived inside a drawer called "Q-Blue2.4":

    Q-Blue                      the program itself

    README                      this file you're reading
    Install                     script that installs fonts and taglines

    Q-Blue.doc                  the user manual

    Taglines                    sample file for use with the tagline feature
    Liberal-taglines            additional taglines, with a political bias

    fonts/newcleanibm.font      four fonts using the IBM character set
    fonts/newcleanibm/8
    fonts/tallibm.font
    fonts/tallibm/11
    fonts/tallibm/12
    fonts/tallibm/14
    fonts/stretchibm.font
    fonts/stretchibm/12
    fonts/wideibm.font
    fonts/wideibm/9
    fonts/wideibm/12
    fonts/wideibm/14
    
    fonts/talliso.font         three fonts using the ISO character set
    fonts/talliso/11
    fonts/talliso/12
    fonts/talliso/14
    fonts/stretchiso.font
    fonts/stretchiso/12
    fonts/wideiso.font
    fonts/wideiso/12
    fonts/wideiso/14

    c/Future                    a little utility for adjusting file dates

    c/IsADir                    four small programs used by Install script
    c/XSkip
    c/RequestChoice
    c/RequestFile
    
    Q-Blue.info                 icons
    README.info
    Install.info
    Q-Blue.doc.info
    Taglines.info
    Liberal-taglines.info
    fonts.info

Also included in the archive, outside of the "Q-Blue2.4" drawer, are the
drawer icon "Q-Blue2.4.info" and the file "file_id.diz", which contains a
description suitable for BBS file listings.  Other files may have been added
by distributors of the archive.  The "Q-Blue2.4" drawer is temporary and can
be deleted after you have run the install script and dragged the program and
the user manual (Q-Blue.doc) to the drawers where you will keep them.

Past versions of Q-Blue distributed on floppy disk generally included copies
of the Info-Zip compression and decompression programs for the Amiga.  Since
this distribution is intended for downloading, they are not included here.
They are available from ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/infozip/AMIGA and various
other sites that carry Info-Zip files.  See http://www.cdrom.com/pub/infozip
for information on these tools (do NOT go to www.infozip.com).
